---
lab:
    title: 'Lab 01: Explore Dynamics 365 Marketing'
    module: 'Module 06: Dynamics 365 Marketing'
---

# MB-901: Dynamics 365 Fundamentals 
## Module 6, Lab 1 - Explore Dynamics 365 Marketing

**Prerequisites:** Prior to performing the steps of this lab, perform the following tasks: 
1. Go to **Marketing** > **Files**
1. Click **New**
1. Click **Add files**
1. Uploads at least one image from your desktop.
1. Click **Upload**

**Optional:**  

1. In your Dynamics 365 instance, go to **Settings** > **Data Management**. 
1. Select **Sample Data**. 
1. If the sample data isn't installed, select **Install Sample Data**. The sample data might take a few minutes to appear, but you can continue to use the application while it's installed. 
1. Select **Close**. 

## Create engaging emails

1. Go to **Marketing** > **Marketing Emails**. This takes you to a list of existing marketing emails. Select **New** on the command bar.
1. The **New Marketing Email** page opens with the **Select an Email Template** dialog box shown. For this exercise, select the **Blank** template so that you can step through all the required content. Then choose **Select** to apply the template to your new message.  **Tip:** Several standard templates are provided out of the box, and you can also create your own templates that feature your organization's graphical identity, required elements, and messaging standards. More information: [Create templates for emails, pages, forms, and journeys](https://docs.microsoft.com/dynamics365/marketing/create-templates) 
1. The **Select an Email Template** dialog box closes and the content (if any) from your selected template is copied to your design. 
1. From the dropdown next to the **Name** and **Status reason** fields in the upper right corner, select the down arrow for more header fields button at the side of the header to open a drop-down dialog and then enter a **Name** for your new message.
1. Enter a **Subject** for your message. This is a very important setting because this is one of the first things recipients will see when they receive the email, and they may use this to decide whether or not to read the message.
1. In the main part of the page, you now see the design canvas (on the left side), where you can drag, arrange, and enter content. Since you chose the blank template, your design includes just a single one-column section (layout) element with nothing in it. 
1. A **Toolbox** on the right side of the page provides design elements that you'll use to construct your message. Drag a **Text** element from the **Toolbox** tab into the section element. When you have dragged the element to a suitable location, a blue shaded region appears. Release the mouse button to drop the element at that location.
1. When you drop the text element, you'll see some placeholder text within the element and a floating toolbar just below or above it.
1. Select and remove the placeholder text, and then add your own. Use the toolbar buttons to style your text as you would in a text editor like Microsoft Word (point to any toolbar button to see what it does). Most of the buttons are for styling text and paragraphs, but there are also buttons for creating links; entering dynamic text (more on this later); and moving, copying, or deleting the entire text element. **Tip:** The very first text that you enter on the page is especially important because most email clients show this as preview text for the messages in their inbox list. Here is how it looks in Microsoft Outlook:
1. An easy way to personalize the message is to include the name of the recipient in the greeting. Add the recipient's name as dynamic text by using the **Assist edit </>** feature as follows:
  - Working in the text element you just added, enter a suitable opening such as "Dear".
  - On the pop-up toolbar, select the Assist edit button  . This   opens the assist-edit dialog.
    - **Note:** Assist edit helps you construct valid dynamic expressions to position field values from recipient contact records, the message content settings, and other database values. This button is provided on the text formatting toolbar whenever you select a text element in the graphical designer. The button is also provided for some settings fields, such as the subject, from-address, and from-name fields.
  - Select the **Contextual** radio button, and then select **ContactSettings** from the combo box here. The **Contextual** setting means that you will place a dynamic value related to the context where you use the message, while the **Contact** setting means that the context relates to the individual recipient (contact) of the message  .
  - Select **Next** to continue to the next page of the assist-edit tool.
  - On the previous page, you choose the contact settings entity (in context). On this page you must choose which field from that entity you want to place. We're building the salutation, so we'd like to show the recipient's name here. Select the **Property** radio button and then start to type "Name" into the combo box here. This searches the available fields for those that include the text "Name", which greatly reduces the number of fields you need to look through. Select **Name** from the list as soon as you can see it. 
  - Select **OK** to place the expression you've built and close the assist-edit tool. The full salutation now looks like this: **Dear {{msdyncrm_contentsettings.msdyncrm_name}},**.  **Tip:** You might have noticed that the **Subject** field also has an assist-edit button. This means that you can put dynamic text (including the recipient's name) in the subject too.
11.	The body of all email messages must include both a subscription-center link and your organization's physical address. These are required by law in many jurisdictions, and **Dynamics 365 Marketing** won't let you publish any marketing email that doesn't have them. Place them by using assist edit as follows:
  - Choose a suitable location for your *physical address*, and then use assist edit to place it. Select **Contextual** and then **ContentSettings** on the first page of the assist-edit tool. Select **Next** and then pick **Property** and **msdyncrm_addressmain** on the second page. Select **OK** to place the expression {{msdyncrm_contentsettings.msdyncrm_addressmain}} into your message.
  - Choose a suitable location for the subscription-center link, and then enter some anchor text there (such as "Manage your subscriptions"). Select the anchor text, and then select the **Link** button  from the floating toolbar, which opens the **Link** dialog box. Select the **Assist edit** button  for the **Link** field. In the assist-edit dialog, select **Contextual** and then **ContentSettings** on the first page. Select **Next** and then pick **Property** and **msdyncrm_subscriptioncenter** on the second page. 
  - Select **OK** to place the expression {{msdyncrm_contentsettings.msdyncrm_subscriptioncenter}} into the **Link** field.
12. You should usually include at least one visible image in your design because this will invite recipients to load images, which is required for Dynamics 365 Marketing to log the message-open event. Drag an **Image** element from the **Toolbox** onto the canvas. This time, when you drop the element, you'll see an image placeholder and the **Properties** tab, which shows configuration settings for the selected element.
13. On the **Properties** tab, select the **Image gallery** button  at the right side of the **Source** field. The **Select a file** dialog box opens. Here you can see all the images that have already been uploaded to your Dynamics 365 Marketing server. Select an image, and then choose Select to place it in your message design. (If you don't see any images, choose Upload to add a new one.) **Tip:** When a message goes live, **Dynamics 365 Marketing** uploads all relevant images from your library to its content-delivery network, where they become available as a single source to all recipients. The images aren't attached to each message, but instead are included as links that are redirected through **Dynamics 365 Marketing** for tracking purposes. Recipients won't download any images until they open the message, which saves bandwidth both for you and them. When a recipient's email client requests the images, **Dynamics 365 Marketing** knows that the message has been opened, and by whom.
1. Your message now includes all the minimal required and recommended content, so go to the **Preview** tab to see an approximation of how it will be rendered on various screen sizes and how its dynamic content will get resolved. Use the buttons in the leftmost column to choose a screen size and orientation to preview. Use the **Contact** and **Content Settings** fields in the **Properties** column to see how your dynamic content will resolve for various recipients and settings.
1. To make sure your message includes all required content and is ready to send, select **Check for Errors** in the command bar. Dynamics 365 Marketing checks your message, and then displays results in the notification bar at the top of the page. If more than one error is found, then select the expansion button to see all of them. If you followed this procedure, your message should pass the error check. If it doesn't, read the error message, fix the reported issue, and try again until it passes.
1. Until now, your previews and error checks have been simulated. The final test is to deliver the message to yourself, open it in your email program, and inspect the results. On the command bar, select **Test Send**. A **Quick Create** form slides in from the side. Enter your own **Email Address** in the field provided, and select the **Test Contact** and **Test Content Settings** records to use when resolving dynamic content (these work the same as for the simulated preview). Select **Save** to send yourself the message. You should receive it in a few minutes.
1. If your message still looks good after you receive it in your inbox and open it, you're ready to publish it by selecting **Go Live** on the command bar. **Dynamics 365 Marketing** copies your design to the email marketing service, which makes the message available for use by a customer journey (but doesn't deliver any messages yet). The go-live process also activates any dynamic code and replaces links with trackable versions that are redirected through **Dynamics 365 Marketing** (which identifies the recipient and logs the click). Finally, your message **Status Reason** is updated to Live
  - **Tip:** While the message is live, it's locked for editing in Dynamics 365 Marketing. If you need to edit a live message, you must first open it in Dynamics 365 Marketing, and then select **Deactivate** on the command bar.
